docs/121,112.md, before:


# {121, 112}

## Upper bound

Always use 1->1->1->… for "larger" subtree and 1->2->1->2… for "smaller" subtree, so that the alternating paths 1->2->1->2… that you create can be as short as possible.
E.g. if you have a long path with some short hairs, the long path would be 1->1->1->… and only the hairs would need color 2 in a coordinated manner.

Hence $O(log ~n)$

## Lower bound

It is rather easy to see that a deterministic setting there is no fast algorithm since, looking at a regular tree, the number of label-2 nodeson level $x$ completely determines the number of label-2 nodes on levels x+1, x+2, etc. => we have $\Omega (log n)$.

We can argue that randomness does not help here. Let's assume the opposite. Then there is a node $v$ somewhere in the middle of a large rooted tree $G$ s.t. the output of $v$ depends on the random bits in its constant neighbourhood $C$. In particular, the output of $v$ is not completely determined by unique ids of nodes in $C$ and the tree structure. Then, if we look at the set $X$ of nodes s.t. they are at the distance of $d$ from $v$ and all nodes in $X$ are descendents of $v$. Given that $d$ is large enough, the number of label-2 nodes in $X$ has to change whenever $v$ changes its label. Ths, no matter what's the distribution of labels in set $X$, if their random bits are independent of the random bits of $v$, with probability > $p$ we will have a mismatch somewhere in the tree.

Hence $\Omega(log ~n)$

Thus, we have $\Theta(log ~n)$

Commit message:

Update sketch of the prrof for 121,112 to use "bottom-up" argument
previosly, "top-down" argument was used. "bottom-up" argument seems
to be more clear

docs/121,112.md, after:


# {121, 112}

## Upper bound

Always use 1->1->1->… for "larger" subtree and 1->2->1->2… for "smaller" subtree, so that the alternating paths 1->2->1->2… that you create can be as short as possible.
E.g. if you have a long path with some short hairs, the long path would be 1->1->1->… and only the hairs would need color 2 in a coordinated manner.

Hence $O(log ~n)$

## Lower bound

It is clear that, in a general case, we cannot use only 1 of the 2 labels, so both labels will need to be used. Therefore, trivial solution where each node outputs the same label wouldn't work here.

It is rather easy to see that a deterministic setting there is no fast algorithm since, looking at a regular tree, at some level $x$, labels of the nodes at this level will **uniquely** determine labels of their parents => we have $\Omega (log n)$.

We can argue that randomness does not help here. Let's assume the opposite. Then there is a node $v$ somewhere in the middle of a large rooted tree $G$ s.t. the output of $v$ depends on the random bits in its constant neighbourhood $C$. In particular, the output of $v$ is not completely determined by unique ids of nodes in $C$ and the tree structure. Then, if we look at the set $X$ of nodes s.t. they are at the distance of $d$ from $v$ and all nodes in $X$ are descendents of $v$. Given that $d$ is large enough, the number of label-2 nodes in $X$ has to change whenever $v$ changes its label. Thus, no matter what's the distribution of labels in set $X$, if their random bits are independent of the random bits of $v$, with probability > $p$ we will have a mismatch somewhere in the tree.

Hence $\Omega(log ~n)$

Thus, we have $\Theta(log ~n)$
